okay so we went through all the
different chords modes here and we
played us one octave scale over them and
the whole point really in this was to
show you basically that we're not going
outside of the key of C major we're just
starting at different points in the C
major scale many people get confused by
that and think you're like changing the
the notes and the scale and they get
really confused but you know don't let
that happen you're basically only in one
key here but starting at different
points okay so now what we're going to
do is we're really going to define the
sound of the modes what we're going to
do is take one bass note and it's going
to be a B here and I want you to put
this on tape and play all the different
modes over this B note so in other words
we're going to play B Ionian B Dorian B
Phrygian B Lydian B mixolydian B Aeolian
and B Locrian so we're going to have a
bunch of different modes all over the B
note and this is going to help you
really hear the different and the
tonality zuv all the different modes so
the first thing we're going to do is
want to build a B Ionian now as we said
before B Ionian the Ionian mode is
always a major scale so very simply
we're going to be in the key of B major
so put a B note or a B major chord on
tape and then play the B scale over it
and then improvise with it a little bit
just to get the feel for what it sounds
like
alright so there's a good example of
what the Ionian mode sounds like it
reminds me of a real happy type of feel
okay so our next mode is going to be the
Dorian mode so let's build a Dory B
Dorian we know two things we know that
Dorian is minor so it's going to be a B
minor chord and we also know that B that
Dorian is the second step of a major
scale so the way I look at this is
rather than you know remember all the
notes in a Dori Dorian scale you know
the typical way it's taught is like the
Dorian is a major scale with a sharp
this or a flat that you know who really
cares all you need to do is relate it to
the basic key you're in and since we
know that Dorian is the second step of a
major scale then obviously the first
step is a so very simply you know you're
in the key of a major but you're playing
over the second chord B minor and you're
starting with a B note so put the B
minor chord on tape and play the the B
Dorian scale which is going to be the a
major starting with a B note
you
alright so there's a good example of
what a Dorian mode sounds like I call it
the Western mode because for some reason
it reminds me of a cowboy movie or a
western movie I can almost visualize
John Wayne riding a horse through the
desert
it might not remind you of anything like
that but I think it's real important to
get a visualization of each mode or each
sound because if you can kind of be
reminded of a different feeling or a
different even a song or you know a
western movie whatever if a mode can
remind you of something then it's going
to be easier for you to remember the
sound of that mode and I think it can be
real helpful in the long run so try to
visualize the sound you know put it into
some thoughts in your head so you can
easily remember it ok so the next thing
we want to do is build a B Phrygian
because Phrygian is next in line
we know that Phrygian is typically a
minor chord and it's the third step of a
major scale so if B is the third step
then obviously our first step must be G
so we know we're playing in the key of G
major it's relative minor would be e
minor so we'd be playing in G major E
minor but starting with a B note over a
B chord it's as simple as that
so put the B minor chord on tape play
the scale over it and then improvise to
get a feel for it
alright so there's what phrygian sounds
like it's kind of a mysterious eerie
type of feel and there is an exception
on this mode we said that it was
typically a minor chord but one thing I
want to point out this has done a lot in
classical music is you can substitute a
major chord here so we'd make B minor B
major which would mean we would change
the D note the D sharp make B major so
now go through put the chord on tape
again play the scale but what you have
to do is since we made D D sharp we have
to change all the notes in the scale
from D to D sharp okay so here's what
that sounds like
Hey
you
alright so there's the other way we can
use a Phrygian mode again that reminds
me of something really mysterious and
like a eerie type of feel almost a
little bit Egyptian okay so our next
mode and line is Lydian so we're going
to build a B Lydian B Lydian Lydian is a
major chord so it's going to be B major
and Lydian is the fourth step from a
major scale so very easily we can find
out that the first step is f major so we
know we're in the key of F major the
relative minor would be e flat minor so
let's play that scale over the B chord
which is going to be Lydian mode
we
Oh
alright so there's a good idea of what
Lydian sounds like